---
layout: post
title: "Working with Jekyll and Textile"
description: "Example page for working with Jekyll and Textile"
tagline: "Textile Scratch Pad"
category: 
tags: [jekyll, ruby, pygment, github, python, textile]
excerpt: |-

 p. Been working with "Jekyll":http://github.com/mojombo/jekyll for a little bit now and I wanted to post something up on this blog as a place holder for my tech site up on "GitHub.com":http://github.com. This article uses Textile markup and is then translated through the Jekyll framework into a static HTML page.
 
---
{% include JB/setup %}

h3. About this Page

p. This is a page that I use for testing out Textile composition in working with the Jekyll. This is just a scratch pad and it will include resources from research at the bottom of the page.

h1. This is an H1

h2. This is an H2

h3. This is an H3

p. This is some content for the post. This is just a test to check things out.

p. Here is some ruby

{% highlight ruby linenos=table %}
# comment
require 'foobar/test'

class Test
  def method
    @test = User.find(params[:id])
    :string => "#{this is a string} inside another string."
    return this
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}
<br />

p. *NOTE:* [-I don't know if I like the Pygment highlight feature of Jekyll. It lacks the ability to cleanly capture the source code from the code block. Looking into other options.-][+Thanks to Matthias for the great info on getting the line numbers to be seperate from the code block for copying. Does anyone have a link(s) for Pygment that better explains its features?+]

p. My "syntax.css":http://media.jlwestsr.com/css/syntax.css file. (To download Right-Click the link and do a "Save As")

h3. Nice To Haves

# Auto-generated sitemap.xml
# Ability to have the site switch layouts depending on the useragent that is being used for viewing the website. (Desktop Browser, Mobile Browser, etc.)

p{font-size:70%;}. *Last Updated:* (working on displaying the date of the when the file was last modified.)
